# Why I Chose to Write This Book

If you were to do a search for "Software Engineering" right now on Amazon, you would find a wide variety of books. From comprehensive software engineering textbooks to books on programming, software design and architecture, writing clean code, software engineering management, and a large number of other topics. A lot of these books are written by very experienced authors with multiple years in the industry and academia. With the existence of all these books, why then would I choose to write this online textbook?&#x20;

Let me begin by saying that I am first and foremost a teacher. As such, my focus on looking at textbooks is to find books that best work for my students and for my teaching style. While there exist multiple books on the topics that I discuss, in some cases topics are split across multiple books and not kept in a single reference. In other cases, books concentrate their efforts too much in process or a particular methodology and as such leave other topics undiscussed. There are books that make great reference materials but at the same time are difficult to read for undergraduate students. In addition, sometimes the biggest limiting factor is the cost of a textbook. Students often depend on financial aid or other means to support their education and textbooks are a major expenditure. I wanted to write a book that let me be more conversational with my students about the different topics I discuss throughout my courses. I also wanted my students to have free access to the material they needed for a course.&#x20;

There are other reasons that I believe that an online textbook was needed. Software Engineering is a fast paced and rapidly changing field. Traditional textbooks and publishing require a certain amount of turnaround time in order to be updated. An online textbook without a publisher does not. This is both a good and bad thing. I do not have editors looking over the content that I write. Instead, I mainly have to depend on feedback from the readers of the content instead. However, at the same time, I can implement necessary changed quickly and update the contents on a regular basis that would not be possible with a traditional book.&#x20;

Finally, I have found that there are misconceptions about what software engineering is and what the activities entail. I have heard from people in industry that they "do not engage in software engineering" which to them means that they do not follow the waterfall process that they were taught in their undergraduate education. I want an opportunity to address misconceptions and false assumptions about what the study of software engineering is all about and to clear up fallacies that I have heard over the years related to software engineering related topics.
